### Day 2


1. Ensure you are connected to the deployable machine in this task.

<details>
<summary>2. Use the `ls` command to list the files present in the current directory. How many log files are present?</summary>

```2```<br><br>You run the `ls` command after having the split-screen terminal show up. You will see the `SSHD.log` and `webserver.log` log files.
</details>
<details>
<summary>3. Elf McSkidy managed to capture the logs generated by the web server. What is the name of this log file?</summary>

```webserver.log```<br><br>This seems almost self explanitory but if you look carefully at the names one of them is in the question.
</details>

4. Begin investigating the log file from question #3 to answer the following questions.

<details>
<summary>5. On what day was Santa's naughty and nice list stolen?</summary>

```Friday```<br><br>Here this isn't as obvious because we have to find the date and then lookup what day of the week that fell on. If we use `grep "/naughty\|/nice" webserver.log`, we can get the day. It turns out that the day `18 Nov 2022` was a Friday.
</details>
<details>
<summary>6. What is the IP address of the attacker?</summary>

```10.10.249.191```<br><br>In our `grep` from question 5 if we look at the first section of the line it gives us our answer.
</details>
<details>
<summary>7. What is the name of the important list that the attacker stole from Santa?</summary>

```santaslist.txt```<br><br>If we look for list and filter further for `HTTP/1.1" 200` we get exactly one line with our file. You can do this with:
```bash
grep "" *.log | grep 'HTTP/1.1" 200'
```
</details>
<details>
<summary>8. Look through the log files for the flag. The format of the flag is: THM{}</summary>

```THM{STOLENSANTASLIST}```<br><br>I acquired this through the command `grep -Eo "THM{.*}" *.log` which is a regex way to capture the everything within the flag formated curly braces from all `.log` files in the current working directory.
</details>

9. Interested in log analysis? We recommend the [Windows Event Logs](https://tryhackme.com/room/windowseventlogs) room or the [Endpoint Security Monitoring Module](https://tryhackme.com/module/endpoint-security-monitoring).
